README.md, before:

# Full stack developer Project 4: Conference Central
Conference Central is a cloud-based API server built on Google Cloud Platform. 
This project is part of [Udacity’s Full Stack Web Developer Nanodegree](https://www.udacity.com/course/nd004).

The API supports the following functionality:

- User authentication 
- Create, read, update conferences and sessions
- Register/deregister for conferences
- Add/remove sessions to user's wish list
- Task Queues and Cron Jobs such as:
    - Email confirmation upon conference creation
    - Update conference announcements in Memcache. (updates every hour)
    - Update most recent featured speaker in Memcache. (checked after session creation)  

Website is available at [cloud9-conf][2]. Though it missed session related endpoint.
Though all functionality can be available using [API Explorer][1]

## Task 1 
## NDB Entities (Models)
- Profile:
    - is an "ancestor" of Conference, for the conference creator
    - "has" Conferences, when registering to a conference
    - "has" Sessions, when adding session to user's wish list
- Conference:
    - is a sibling of Profile
    - is an "ancestor" of sessions
- Session:
    - is a sibling of Conference
    - contains a Speaker (structured property)
- Speaker:
    - is a structured property. 

Conference was considered as an ancestor of Session so it use the conference key to obtain all sessions registered in the conference.

Note:
- Date, YYY-MM-DD, or a time, HH:MM, were updated to to use DateProperty and TimeProperty.

## Task 2:
Suggested endpoints are implemented and can be accessed using [API expolrer][1].

## Task 3: Queries

Let’s say that you don't like workshops and you don't like sessions after 7 pm. 
How would you handle a query for all non-workshop sessions before 7 pm?
- `Session.query(Session.typeOfSession != 'workshop', Session.startTime < time(19) )`

What is the problem for implementing this query?
- NDB Datastore API support inequalities only for single property whereas in the problem we were asked to perform inequalities for multiple properties.

What ways to solve it did you think of?
- One solution is to let datastore handle the first inequality and any additional inequalities should be implemented in python.

The endpoint 'getTypewithTime' use the above approach.

### Additional Queries

`gethourSessions()` - Return session which are of an hour or less.

`querySessions()` - Given a `SessionQueryForms`, returns a set of filtered sessions.

## Task 4 : Adding Task 
- `getFeaturedSpeaker()`
   When a new session is added to a conference if there is more than one session
   by this speaker return featured speaker / sessions from memcache.
   
[1]: https://cloud9-conf.appspot.com/_ah/api/explorer
[2]: https://cloud9-conf.appspot.com/#/

Commit message:

instuction to run locally added

README.md, after:

# Full stack developer Project 4: Conference Central
Conference Central is a cloud-based API server built on Google Cloud Platform. 
This project is part of [Udacity’s Full Stack Web Developer Nanodegree](https://www.udacity.com/course/nd004).

The API supports the following functionality:

- User authentication 
- Create, read, update conferences and sessions
- Register/deregister for conferences
- Add/remove sessions to user's wish list
- Task Queues and Cron Jobs such as:
    - Email confirmation upon conference creation
    - Update conference announcements in Memcache. (updates every hour)
    - Update most recent featured speaker in Memcache. (checked after session creation)  

Website is available at [cloud9-conf][2]. Though it missed session related endpoint.
Though all functionality can be available using [API Explorer][1]

## Task 1 
## NDB Entities (Models)
- Profile:
    - is an "ancestor" of Conference, for the conference creator
    - "has" Conferences, when registering to a conference
    - "has" Sessions, when adding session to user's wish list
- Conference:
    - is a sibling of Profile
    - is an "ancestor" of sessions
- Session:
    - is a sibling of Conference
    - contains a Speaker (structured property)
	- duration is int to represent minutes. int helps to run boundary queries.
	- date is date property , again to help in queries , represent as  YYY-MM-DD.
	- startTime is time property represent as HH:MM, that will help run time related queries.
- Speaker:
    - is a structured property. 

Session have speakers that are unregistered users represent as Structure property.
Conference was considered as an ancestor of Session so it use the conference key to obtain all sessions registered in the conference.

## Task 2:
Suggested endpoints are implemented and can be accessed using [API expolrer][1].

## Task 3: Queries

Let’s say that you don't like workshops and you don't like sessions after 7 pm. 
How would you handle a query for all non-workshop sessions before 7 pm?
- `Session.query(Session.typeOfSession != 'workshop', Session.startTime < time(19) )`

What is the problem for implementing this query?
- NDB Datastore API support inequalities only for single property whereas in the problem we were asked to perform inequalities for multiple properties.

What ways to solve it did you think of?
- One solution is to let datastore handle the first inequality and any additional inequalities should be implemented in python.

The endpoint 'getTypewithTime' use the above approach.

### Additional Queries

`gethourSessions()` - Return session which are of an hour or less.

`querySessions()` - Given a `SessionQueryForms`, returns a set of filtered sessions.

## Task 4 : Adding Task 
- `getFeaturedSpeaker()`
   When a new session is added to a conference if there is more than one session
   by this speaker return featured speaker / sessions from memcache.
   
# Run Conference Central Locally
1. Update the value of `application` in `app.yaml` to the app ID you
   setup in Google App Engine console.
1. Update the values of respective client IDs in 'setting.py'. Again these clientIDs registered in the
   [Developer Console][3].
1. Update the value of CLIENT_ID in `static/js/app.js` to the Web client ID
1. Run the app with the Google App Engine launcher availbale at [APP Engine SDK][4].Now check the application by visiting your local server's address (by default [localhost:8080][5].)
1. (optional) Test [endpoints][6]. 
   
[1]: https://cloud9-conf.appspot.com/_ah/api/explorer
[2]: https://cloud9-conf.appspot.com/#/
[3]: https://console.developers.google.com
[4]: https://cloud.google.com/appengine/downloads?hl=en#Google_App_Engine_SDK_for_Python
[5]: http://localhost:8080
[6]: http://localhost:8080/_ah/api/explorer
